Terraria - Walkthrough - Part 2

Pre-Hardmode Bosses

        King Slime
            King Slime is a giant blue slime

        Eye of Cthulhu
            It has a 1 in 3 chance of spawning at the beginning of each night once the player has 200 HP or more, 3 or more NPCs living in houses, and over 10 defense..
            If spawning this way, its arrival is announced by the status message "You feel an evil presence watching you..."
            Defeat Eye of Cthulhu it for some Crimtane / Demonite (Crimson/Corruption)

        Depending on the type of evil in the world. Brain of Cthulhu (Crimson) / Eater of Worlds (Corruption).
        Explore the evil biomes, bring some bombs as your Pickaxe probably can't break the Crimstone/Ebonstone.
            Brain of Cthulhu (Crimson)
                Break 3 Crimson Hearts.
                Crimson Hearts are found in the Crimson's chasms, surrounded by Crimstone.
                Defeat Brain of Cthulhu for some Tissue Samples and more Crimtane Ore.
            Eater of Worlds (Corruption)  
                Break 3 Shadow Orbs.
                Shadow Orbs are found in the Corruption chasms, surrounded by Ebonstone.
                Defeat Eater of Worlds for some Tissue Samples and more Demonite Ore.

        Queen Bee
            She is summoned by destroying her larva, encased within the walls of Bee Hives located in the Underground Jungle.

        Skeletron
            It is summoned by speaking to the Old Man NPC at the entrance of the Dungeon and activating his curse at night.
            Defeat Skeletron to stop the Dungeon Guardians from spawning, allowing free access to the Dungeon.

        Dig your way to the Underworld (Hell).
        Get a Guide Voodoo Doll from Voodoo Demons (rare enemy in The Underworld).
        Drop the Guide Voodoo Doll in lava to summon the Wall of Flesh.
        Wall of Flesh
            WARNING: Irreversibly enable Hardmode in the world  
            Defeat Wall of Flesh to unlock Hardmode.
            It also drops the Pwnhammer which can be used to break Demon Altars (Corruption) or Crimson Altars (Crimson) in order to spawn various game-advancing Hardmode ores.

Hardmode Bosses

        Queen Slime - a giant rainbow slime queen
            Queen Slime can be summoned by using a Gelatin Crystal in the Hallow 
            Gelatin Crystal can be found in the Underground Hallow alongside Crystal Shards, and it spawns in the same way as Crystal Shards.

        3 Mechanical Bosses 
            It has a 1/10 (10%) chance to spawn naturally at dusk once a Demon or Crimson Altar has been destroyed, as long as it has not yet been defeated at least once in the current world. 
            If spawning this way, its arrival is announced by the status message "The air is getting colder around you...".

            Skeletron Prime - weaponized mechanical variation of Skeletron. Instead of two hands, it has four limbs – a vice, laser gun, saw, and cannon. Only the head has to be defeated.
                Soul of Fright  
            The Twins - a pair of cybernetic Eyes of Cthulhu. They exist as two individual entities, known as Retinazer and Spazmatism.
                Soul of Sight
            The Destroyer - a colossal mechanized Eater of Worlds.
                Soul of Might

            Defeat all three mechanical bosses to spawn Plantera's Bulb, which is found in the Underground Jungle

        Plantera - an enormous flower
            She is awoken by destroying a Plantera's Bulb, which is found in the Underground Jungle after defeating all three mechanical bosses.
            Defeat Plantera to obtain the Temple Key.

        Find the Jungle Temple in the Underground Jungle. 
        Explore the Jungle Temple
            Golem 
                It is summoned by using a Lihzahrd Power Cell at the Lihzahrd Altar in the Jungle Temple. 

        Empress of Light - Fairy Queen
            She can be summoned from killing a Prismatic Lacewing
            The Prismatic Lacewing is a rare flying critter that spawns in the surface Hallow from dusk until midnight (7:30 PM and 12:00 AM) after Plantera has been defeated. 

        Duke Fishron - a mutant shark-pig-dragon hybrid 
            He is summoned when a Truffle Worm is used as bait for fishing in the Ocean.
            The Truffle Worm is a rare critter that spawns in the underground Glowing Mushroom biome during Hardmode.
            In order to use it, it must be caught with a Bug Net and used as bait with a Fishing Pole in an Ocean biome. 

        Lunatic Cultist - Celestial Pillars - Moonlord

            Lunatic Cultist 
                It is summoned by killing the four cultists, which reside at the entrance of the Dungeon after Golem is defeated.
                WARNING: When the Lunatic Cultist is defeated, the Lunar Events will begin.
            
            Lunar Events are a series of four late-Hardmode events.
            Once the Lunatic Cultist is defeated, four different sections of the world each show a large planet in their backgrounds and spawn several unique enemies at high spawn rates, with one corresponding Celestial Pillar in each. 
            These areas can be found on the minimap via icons that represent each of their Celestial Pillars.

            Destroy all 4 Celestial Pillars 
            In order to damage a pillar, one must first kill 100 / 150 enemies from within its section, which removes the shield that protects the pillar and makes it vulnerable to attacks.
            Defeating all four Celestial Pillars triggers the status message "Impending doom approaches...", signifying that the Moon Lord, Terraria's final boss, is about to spawn. 
        
                Solar Pillar
                    Cause solar fragments to rain non-stop from the sky.
                    It spawns melee-based enemies. 
                    It is highly recommended to stay on the ground, as the Crawltipedes it spawns only target airborne players. 
                Nebula Pillar
                    It spawns magic-based enemies.
                Vortex Pillar
                    Occasionally spawning a Giant Magnet sphere sort of attack. 
                    It spawns ranged-based enemies
                Stardust Pillar 
                    Has a damaging spawning animation. 
                    It spawns summon-based enemies. 
            It spawns one minute after the message appears.

            Moon Lord -  the final boss of Terraria
                It drops a majority of the endgame items and Luminite, an ore used to craft many endgame armor sets and tools.
