Terraria - Walkthrough

What is in a world?

Space - Space is the layer making up the top of the world, above the Surface.
    Floating Islands - Floating Islands are randomly generated somewhere in the upper areas of the map.
    Floating Lakes - Floating Lakes consist of nothing more than a large body of water, suitable for fishing. 

Surface - You spawn here, go left go right and you'll find various biomes 
    Forests - Forests are the most common surface biome, and are where the player usually spawns upon starting a new world
    Deserts - Sand and cactus.
    Snow biomes -  Snow and Ice.
    Ocean - Water. Lots of water.
    The Jungle - Huge trees.
    The Dungeon - The Dungeon is a difficult labyrinth leading from the Surface down to near-Underworld depths. 
        The Old Man stands at the entrance, and using him to defeat Skeletron is required to gain access to the inside.
    Evil biome (Crimson/Corruption)  - Usually only either Crimson or Corruption will spawn in each world. They spread, so be careful / isolate.
        The Corruption follows a rotten theme and features vertical chasms, Shadow Orbs, and Demon Altars.
        The Crimson follows a gory theme and features angled passages, Crimson Hearts, and Crimson Altars
    The Hallow - the counterpart to the Evil Biome. It forms after the Wall of Flesh in the Underworld is defeated, it also spreads like the evil biome.

Underground - below the surface. nothing much here, you're just underground.
    Cavern -  the largest layer, beginning just below the Underground and extending down until the Underworld layer.
        Underground Desert - Under the desert theres... Antlions 
        Underground Ice biome - Fragile Thin Ice
        Underground Jungle - Temple and plants. Danger.
        The Glowing Mushroom biome - Mushrooms that glow
        Glowing Moss biome - Mossy
        * After the Wall of Flesh in the Underworld is defeated. New underground biomes are formed.
            Underground Hallow
            Underground Corruption / Underground Crimson
    The Underworld (Hell) - deepest layer of the world, marked by dark rock with orange lines through it near the top followed by a spacious cavern.
        - Welcome to Hell

There are many other smaller biomes and zones in the world to explore.

What to do? Progress where? Story?
It dosen't really have a story. But there's milestones to unlock and progressive fights/equipments.
A new world starts in Pre-Hardmode. Fight bosses till you get into Hardmode. Fight more bosses till you see the end-of-game credits.

Pre-Hardmode - It begins

    Spawn in the world, and meet the first NPC - the Guide. 
    Chop trees, mine ores, upgrade your equipments, try not to die.
    Build a house for the NPCs / yourself
        - A house for NPC must aso be fully covered by background walls, the house must include one "entrance", a light source, a "flat surface" item, and a "comfort item". ie. a Door, a torch, a table and a chair.
    Explore the map.
    Explore the underground areas of the evil biomes, locate Shadow Orbs / Crimson Hearts.
    Find a chasm in evil biomes, locate the Demon Altar / Crimson Altars.
    Explore the undergound and find Life Crystals to increase max hp. (max 400)
    Explore the surface at night to find Fallen Star to craft mana crystal to increase max mana. (max 200)
    Find the dungeon.
    Explore the Underworld.

    Progression. To progress the game, kill bosses. Refer to Pre-Hardmode Bosses.
    You might want to build an arena/create an open area to run around before fighting the bosses.
    Bosses can be encountered or summoned. 
    
Hardmode - It gets harder

    The Hallow has arrived.
    The Underground Hallow is generated.
    The Underground Crimson / Underground Corruption is generated.
    They spread like the Crimson/Corruption, so be careful / isolate.
    Break some Demon Altar / Crimson Altars to spawn better ores. (3 to unlock ores)3 but toooooo many... breaking Altars speeds up / spreads the evil biome and the Hallow. 
    Mine better ores, upgrade your equipments.
    Explore Underground Crimson / Underground Corruption / Underground Hallow 
    Explore the Floating Island / Floating Lakes 
    Get some souls 
        - Underground Crimson/Underground Corruption - Soul of Night
        - Underground Hallow - Soul of Light
        - Floating Island / Floating Lakes  - Soul of Flight
    Make a wing with Soul of Flight
    Explore the Underground Jungle to find Life Fruits to further incerease max hp. (max 500)
        - Life Fruit will only grow after one mechanical boss has been defeated.

    Progression. To progress the game, kill bosses. Refer to Hardmode Bosses.
    You might want to build an arena/create an open area to run around before fighting the bosses.
    Bosses can be encountered or summoned. 


